---
layout: post
title: France and Deregulation
date:  2008-01-11 02:55
comments: true
categories: opinion
meta: 
---
Very obviously, the martial status and love life of Sarkozy is taking the limelight, and mainstream media basically treat this story as if it belongs to entertainment section.<br /><br />Oh, well, that's why mainstream media is mainstream, isn't it?<br /><br />So, when I learn about the reform Sarkozy has brought to France, I was a bit surprised. News like this basically escape me, a news junkie.<br /><br />The following are some example:<br /><br /><ul><li>Abolished the 35 work hours/week restriction. On top of this, a worker does not have to pay tax on the income resulted from his/her overtime. Employer is also only required to pay a lesser contribution to pension and health care levy for the overtime payment.</li></ul><br /><ul><li>Simplify the tax laws: for some lower income family, a bill is passed so that a ceiling, 50%, is imposed on they have to pay to government. This does not include just income tax alone, but also covering various government fee and charge.</li></ul><br /><ul><li>Bills passed to weaken Union power</li></ul><br /><ul><li>Actively encourage the R&amp;D via financial incentive</li></ul><br /><span style="font-style: italic;">(It is reported by </span><span style="font-style: italic;">Bloomberg on the Economy</span><span style="font-style: italic;"> Podcast - Interview with </span><a style="font-style: italic;" href="http://media.bloomberg.com/bb/avfile/BBRECON/vrs30YCrvv3s.mp3">Philippe Farve</a><span style="font-style: italic;">, 21 Dec 07 )</span><br /><br />It seems like it is going to be a Generational Change in France. In the all these hype of BRIC (Bazil, Russia, India and China), people probably is not aware that Europe actually has a balanced and increasing vibrant economy.<br /><br />Next to do: get some quantitative data to verify the above view.